configured components in VM
route53 with IP address

1. traffic
2. self healing
3. load balancing

autoscaling
launch templates
target groups
load balancers

1. we have a docker host where all containers are running
	what if docker host crash? we lose all containers
	even we use docker volumes, data is still in the host, so we lost data as well
2. what if traffic increases/decreases? are our containers scalable
3. even we have multiple containers to balance the load? who is the LB here?
4. what if some container crashes? can docker make it available again?
5. what about configurations and secrets? where to store them?
6. what if we have multiple hosts running with containers

we need some orchestrator?

kubernetes is popular container orchestration tool. 

docker is used for building the images...it can also run containers but have lot of above disadvantages..

minikube --> it is a single node cluster.. master and node is same. it is just to practice few k8 resources.

kubeconfig --> is the files contains authentication information to connect kubernetes cluster

kubectl automatically search for this directory ".kube/config" inside this we have this kubeconfig file.

To connect minikube master form client server(work station)
-----------------------------------------------------------
install kubectl inclient server.

google it for installation document.

copy authentication file from master and add it in client server. path .kube/config

aws we have multiple resources. like same we have some resources in Kubernetes as well.

Kubernetes resources 
--------------------
Namespaces ---> it is a project name like our roboshop. inside that roboshop project we have all components. namespace used to create own projects names.

pod
---
pod is a smallest deployable unit. it contains space to run the application like container. and pod contains multiple containers.

* containers in same pod can share the network. like nginx container and almalinux with [sleep 300] example. 

why pod contains multiple containers
------------------------------------
* there is a main container and another is sidecar to help for main container. Here catalogue container generates too many to log files right. the sidecar takes that log files push to ELK.

basic pod definition:

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: roboshop  # create pod in roboshop namespace, make sure to create namespace before run the pod.	
spec:
  containers:          # Fixed: "container" → "containers" (plural)
  - name: nginx        # Fixed: List format with "-"
    image: nginx
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80  # Fixed: Indentation (2 spaces)

commands
--------
kubectl create -f <pod.yaml> --> create pod but running and also run same command second will get and error if pod exist.
kubectl apply -f <pod.yaml> --> creating a pod and make it running. here no error if run second time if file have changes will update otherwise showing unchanged.


































